# Creating a Device Collection (Product)

This article describes how to create a device collection, aka product. Any device that connects to the EnOS Cloud must have an identity on the platform to perform data interaction with the cloud normally. The device can be registered in the cloud in dynamic mode or static mode. Both of these modes require the device to offer the Product Key issued by the cloud.

## Before You Start

- To create a product, you must have write access to the **Connectivity Management** service. If you don't have the access, contact your OU administrator to obtain the access. For more information about user access in EnOS, see [Policy, Roles, and Access](/docs/iam/en/latest/access_policy).

- The model corresponding to this product has been created. For information about how to create a model, see [Creating a Model](../../model/creating_model).

## Step 1: Creating a Product

1. In the EnOS Console, select **Device Management > Product**.

2. Click the **New Product** button and complete the following settings on the **New Product** pop-up window.

   - **Product Name**: The name of the product, unique within the same organization. Supports Chinese characters, uppercase alphabets (A-Z), lowercase alphabets (a-z), numbers (0-9) and underline.
   - **Asset Type**: Defines the asset type of the product.

     + Device: There are no sub-devices that need to be connected.
     + Edge: Needs to connect to sub-devices.

   - **Model**: The model used by the product.
   - **Data Type**: The format of the data sent from the device side.

     + Json: The format must meet the JSON interaction format generated by the attributes defined in the model.
     + Custom: The data format in custom mode is not limited, even binary data is allowed. But you need to create a custom data parsing script on the product to encode and decode the uplink and downlink data.

   - **Certificate-based bi-directional authentication**: Specify whether to enable the Certificate-based bi-directional authentication method for this product.
   - **Description**: Description of the product.

4. Click **OK** to create the product.

## Step 2: (Optional) Adding a Tag

A tag describes the common information shared by products of the same type.

1. From the list of created products, find the target product and click **View**.

2. Under the **Basic Information** tab, clcik **Edit** in the **Tags** section.

3. On the pop-up window, click **New tag**, and enter the key-value pair (key:value) for the new tag.

4. Click **OK** to save the tag.

## Results

When the Product is created, you can get a pair of credentials: Product Key (`productKey`) and Product Secret (`ProductSecret`). This pair of credentials uniquely identifies the product and is the key to the device registration and product information modification for this product. The product secret credentials will be used for activating the device. For more information, see [Device and Cloud Security](../../../learn/deviceconnection_authentication).

## Follow-up Operations

If you select **Custom** for the **Data Type** field, you need to upload the data parsing script. For more information, see [Creating Data Parsing Script](creating_data_parsing_script).

## Related Information

- [Creating a Model](../../model/creating_model)
- [Creating a Device](creating_device)
