# Creating Product

This article describes how to create a product. Any device that connects to the EnOS Cloud must have a legal identity on the platform to perform data interaction with the cloud normally. The device can be registered in the cloud in dynamic mode or static mode. Both of these modes require the device to offer the Product Key issued by the cloud.

## Before You Start

The model corresponding to this product has been created. For information on how to create a model, please refer to [Creating Model](creating_model).

## Step 1: Create a Product
1. In the EnOS Console, select **Access Management > Product Management**.
2. Click **New Product** at the top right of the page, and provide the following settings on the **Creating Product** page.
   - **Product Name**: The name of the product, unique within the same organization.
   - **Asset Type**: Defines the type of this node.
      + Device: There are no sub devices that need to be connected.
      + Gateway: Needs to connect to the sub device.
   - **Device Model**: The model used by the product.
   - **Data Format**: The format of the data sent from the device side.
       + JSON Mode: The format must meet the JSON interaction format generated by the attributes defined in the model.
       + Passthrough Mode: The data format in passthrough mode is not limited, even binary data is allowed. But you need to create a custom data parsing script on the product to encode and decode the uplink and downlink data.
   - **Authorization Method**: The authentication method for this product.
      + General Authentication: One-way authentication based on secret
      + Hybrid Authentication: Secret-based one-way authentication and certificate-based two-way authentication
   - **Product Description**: A description of the product.

3. Click **Confirm** to create the product.

## Step 2: (Optional) Add a Tag
A tag describes the common information shared by products of the same type.

1. In the EnOS Console, select **Access Management > Product Management**.
2. Click **View** next to the product to be added, and click **Edit** in the Tags section to add a tag. A tag is made up of a key-value pair (key:value).

## Results

When the Product is created, you can get a pair of credentials: Product Key (`productKey`) and Product Secret (`ProductSecret`). This pair of credentials uniquely identifies the identity of the product, and is the key to the device registration and product information modification for this product The product secret credentials will be used for activating the device. For more information, please refer to [Secret-based One-way Authentication](.. / secretbased_authentication).

## Follow-up Operations

If you select the passthrough mode in **Data Format**, you need to upload the data parsing script. For more information, please refer to [Creating Data Parsing Script](creating_data_parsing_script).

## Related Information

- [Creating Model](creating_model)
- [Creating Device](creating_device)
