# Creating Device

A device is an instance of a model. It belongs to a certain product. A DeviceKey, a unique certificate within the organization, will be issued by the platform for the device. The device can be connected directly to the platform or connected to the IoT platform as a sub-device via gateway. This article describes how to create a device.

## Before You Start

The product to which the device belongs has been created. For information on how to create a product, please refer to [Creating Product](creating_product).

## Step 1: Create a Device

1. In the EnOS Console, select **Access Management > Device Management**.
2. Click **New Device** at the top right of the page, and provide the following settings on the **Creating Device** page.
   - **Product**: Select the product to which the device belongs.
    After selecting the product, continue to configure the Attributes settings in the template of the product. Attributes are either required or optional.
   - **Device Name**: The name of the device; same name can be used under the same organization.
   - **Device Key**: A unique identifier for the product under the same organization. When left blank, this attribute will be automatically generated by the system.

3. Click **Confirm** to create the product.

## Step 2: (Optional) Add a Tag

A tag describes the common information shared by all instances of the device.

1. In the EnOS Console, select **Access Management > Device Management**.
2. Click **View** next to the device to be added, and click **Edit** in the Tags section to add a tag. A tag is made up of key:value.


## Results

After creating the device, you will obtain a set of credentials: Device Name (`deviceName`) and Device Secret (`deviceSecret`). The device secret credential issued by EnOS Cloud will be used to activate the device. For more information, please refer to [Secret-based One-way Authentication](.. / secretbased_authentication).

## Follow-up Operations

When offline, a newly created device is shown as Inactive. To activate the device, you will need to initiate a connection through the device SDK. For more information, please refer to [Using Java SDK](device/using_java_sdk.md)

## Related Information

- [Creating Model](creating_model)
- [Creating Product](creating_product)
